
2017/8/21 SQL class

Today is the first day of the school also the first SQL class. I am quite nervous because It is not an easy course just like Mr. Ting said. We learned about some ideas about how database work and some terms’ definitions. 

2017/8/29 SQL class

Today we learn about how to draw diagram for our data. We learn to combine every aspect together and fine their relationship. Many to one, or one to many.

2017/9/4 SQL class

Today we practice to draw diagram on google drawing. It was kinda messy, but we get to learn more about how to identify entities, attributes, relationship, etc.

2017/9/7 SQL class

We played vocabulary game as whole class today. This help us remember term’s definition and also connection with other words

2017/9/11 SQL class

Today we play jeopardy of SQL data base. Some questions easy, and some are hard. All three groups have similar point, but we are the lowest group.

2017/9/14 SQL class

We continue to finish the jeopardy. Surprisedly, we get the final victory at the end. After jeopardy game, we start a game practice of ER diagram. I feel like I start to hate attribute in some reason.

2017/9/18 SQL class

Today we are practicing ER diagram using card. We are assign position and build a diagram that the position might need or included in.


2017/9/27

We learn the concept of NF today, we are quite confuse, the video is quite tedious, but the diagram card is getting more complex and interesting.

2017/10/1

Today we are practicing 1NF, 2NF, and 3NF by converting our position diagram to relational schema

2017/10/8

Today we take a quiz because there is plagiarism issue in class.

2017/10/11

Today we do practice on modeling pizza database, we are making BCNF for it.

2017/10/16

Today we learn about differential privacy and whether denormalization is needed. And yes it require to reduce null value.

2017/10/19

After a period of learning way to design a database, such as normalized and denormalized form. Mr. Ting give us an in class practice of converting a Pizza data base into different form he want. It is also homework if we are not finished in class.

2017/10/23

So basically, we start doing actual querying instead of learning more theoretical term and definition. Today we learn to create Transaction on sqlfiddle, a platform for programmer to practice querying skills. 

2017/10/26

After we create a transaction on the sqlfiddle, we start to learn command to search for informations we want to see in database. Even though the database isn’t a huge one that we can directly find out from looking at database itself, but in real life a database could be thousand or more line that you don’t even know where you are at, so learn to query is needed.

2017/10/30

We continue to query with Mr. Ting showing us more and more way. However, he let us search for function we want on internet instead of telling us the answer. I am struggle a little because I am not good at searching keywords. However, practice makes perfect.

2017/11/2

The journey of querying isn’t ended yet. New source data camp is introduce so that we can learn more detail programming skills through it. We are assigned homework on it and also class time to work on data camp too.

2017/11/6

At the same time practicing through data camp, we continue using sqlfiddle to explore more function. As was start merging information from different tables, that is when the difficult start to appear.

2017/11/9

Work day on data camp today

2017/11/13

Work day on data camp today, at the same time, we have homework about building a restaurant database sheet.

2017/11/16

Today Mr.Ting give us some question that is not related to SQL to test our programming ability. He explain this is the question interviewer will face when they are looking for programming job in companies. This practice also show we still need more experience on programming.

2017/11/20

Work day on data camp today

2017/11/23

We continue learn through data camp, but at the same time, we have homework of answering question on Relational Algebra and Calculus to keep in track of learning theoretical stuff.

2017/11/27

As more and more practice applied, we are mentioned about a future project about designing a restaurant database by using the normalization practice sheet before. But today we still work on datacamp.

2017/11/30

Downloading Libreoffice, and this thing take us whole class to do it. Mr. Ting is going crazy about this.

2017/12/4

After make sure everyone download Libreoffice correctly, we spend half class to check it, and at the end learn to use libreoffice to build tables, relationships, and queries.

2017/12/7

Here is the project. Convert your restaurant sheet in to a data base. This long project is gonna be tough.

2017/12/11

Self explore libreoffice. At first I feel I am doing well on creating tables, but I just figure out order is wrong, and I have to redo everything again. It is annoying.

2017/12/14

Self explore libreoffice. How to change a attribute into random value !!!!!!!!!

2017/12/18

Self explore libreoffice. 

2017/12/21

Christmas break coming, we are told to finish the database after the break. Today is also work day.

2018/1/8

VEX robotic inventory database project. Even though we know it is coming, we are still sad when this is announced. Today we spend a class discussing about how is the database going to do and 
figuring out ER Model.

2018/1/12
The first class of the new semester, we have to decide which path we are going for. Mr. Ting explain basic idea of Oracle database and HTML PHP setup. For me, I was thinking about learn HTML 
since it it easier to learn. However, consider about Oracle skills is rare, I decided to challenge myself taking it and see how it will goes. So we first buy the lesson online and start our self
study.

2018/1/15

We finish 1-1 to 1-9 last class, and I continue learn from tutorial at home. When today's course start, I am at 1-13 and learn about datatype and null number.
As we continue self learn, I progress to 1-17 at the end of the day. 

2018/1/19

Self working today, I start learning about grouping data inside a table. Learning Group By clauses.

2018/1/22

Self working today, After single table grouping, I proceed to multi table grouping using join.

2018/1/26

Self working day, Learning how to create table

2018/1/29

Self working day, Learning how to insert data to a table

2018/2/2

PD day, no class

2018/2/5

I am absent from the class due to family vacation.

2018/2/8

Due to school moving facility to new campus, we aren't able to use the room today. Mr. Ting bring us out to a restaurant and practice making a restaurant database base on the menu of the restaurant.
We learn that we can break up the dishes into different category with its ingredients. We also learn how to seperate take away order and eating in restaurant. By having this fieldtrip, I feel it is a 
efficient way to connect real life issue with learning, because we are able to see the process of designing a database.

2018/2/12

New year break coming! Since we still don't have a decent, comfortable, and "safe" room, Mr. Ting tell us to stay in Ms. B's room and do self study with AP bio student together.
As Shaun and Darren are figuring out PHP stuff, me and Daniel are little bit delay due to the problem of downloading oracle database onto our computer.
Daniel and I both use Mac book, which oracle does not support any version, thus we need to either download dropbox or cut our disk into windows mod. 

2018/2/15

New year

2018/2/19

New year

2018/2/22

The break is over, but we help Mr.Ting pack the bio lab because we realized it is a mess. I pack up all glass container with news paper and somebody record items on a paper for future inventory.

2018/2/26

Help pack again, we are almost done!

2018/3/1

Since the packing is nearly done, today we have class outside. They made me decide the restaurant, since Shaun's idea that go to 十上 is rejected. Thus, I decide to go to Japanese restaurant and forgot to choose 
an easier one for making database. We take some time ordering food and start our lesson. And the lesson is literlly tell us to do an inventory database of the restaurant with ER model
Even though it seem like it is a simple work, but it takes us forever to think of an idea without Mr.Ting suggestion. As the food continue to arrive, our mind is still stuck in that ER modeling.
Four of us gradually fill out the model. And after the lunch, we move back to Ms.B's room and finish the ER model.

2018/3/5
moving break

2018/3/8
moving break

2018/3/12
moving break

2018/3/15
Organizing and learn about science storage room. We need to fix the tables that contain all information about items.

2018/3/19
We went to lab again and start using personal email to share a google sheet and organizing data.

2018/3/22
Clean data

2018/3/26
Clean data

2018/3/29
Mr. Ting anounced there are upcoming assignments of finishing inventory. We continue cleaning the data in google sheet.

2018/4/2
Clean google sheet

2018/4/5
Clean google sheet

2018/4/9
Clean google sheet

2018/4/12
Mr.Ting had give us assignments of completing school inventory system. We seperated into php and oracle group. One responsible for making a website layout, and one
creating a database with information imputed in and a backend editing form. As a oracle team, we need to first clean the data in google sheet, then import data to
database, and at the end create a backend form.

2018/4/16
Since we feel like the sheet is almost done cleaning, we head on to importing data by doing research.

2018/4/19
Figuring out how to import data. At the same time, I work on labeling the data.

2018/4/23
We still couldn't find out how to import data into database. Instead we finish cleaning data.

2018/4/26
We had been struggled to import the data to database for almost a week. During this class, we still try to figure out how to import data through sql operation studio.
However, the function is just not exist. So I do more research, and figure out maybe database management system would help. Looking for a MAC version management system
become my main focus.

2018/4/30
Before the class, I have figure out how to use database management system and sucessfully transform google sheet file to CSV file. After a long time editing the data, I
sucessfully import the table into database. Even though the data is in wrong form. So I need to spend more time clean the data now.


2018/5/3
Before the class start, I already figured out how to import data into database using database management system instead of database operation studio. Because what
operation studio did is more of viewing and querying. I show Daniel and Mr. Ting how it's gonna work during the class and we are ready to move on.
2018/5/7
Since Me and Daniel had already completed importing data to our database and clean the data, we move on to our next step of creating a backend for the website to
update new data. At this point we are waiting for php group to finish their page design so we can borrow the same template and make our backend page.
2018/5/10
AP week. We have selfworking period today. Me and Daniel discussed about how to make our backend.

2018/5/14
AP week. We have selfworking period today. Me and Daniel discussed about how to make our backend.

2018/5/17
AP week. We have selfworking period today. Me and Daniel discussed about how to make our backend.

2018/5/21
Today Mr. Ting told us what need to be done by by the end of the course. He told me and Daniel to create a edit mode by creating an admin page, so me and Daniel 
start figurning with Shaun. For Php group, Mr. Ting told Shaun to beautifulize the page and make it user friendly.

